Right.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, the right lights on already.
NOTE CONF
Um, so welcome back again.
Uh, to my part of Isla.
NOTE CONF
Um, so before we start going.
A couple of announcements.
NOTE CONF
Uh, first of all, I've been asked to advertise this
event here.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I'm sure you've seen other posters about.
I don't actually know any more about it, but I
NOTE CONF
just put up this, um, this slide there.
Um, the other thing I want to say.
NOTE CONF
Or we've got the attendance poll here.
Um, I keep this up for a little bit.
NOTE CONF
Um, please do take part in it.
Um, and then finally, um, thanks to everybody who's taking
NOTE CONF
part in the mid-semester feedback poll that is closed now
last week.
NOTE CONF
At the moment we are working through that, looking through
all the replies you've given us, this is very valuable
NOTE CONF
for us.
Um, and we will later this week or beginning of
NOTE CONF
next week.
Um, post the reply to all the points that have
NOTE CONF
been raised and, um, how we are taking these on
board so we haven't forgotten about it.
NOTE CONF
You will get feedback.
Um, but we are just working on it at the
NOTE CONF
moment.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so having said that, I'm going to go back
here and uh, which we're on.
NOTE CONF
Am I going to do that?
I think I'm going to start maybe, um, doing this
NOTE CONF
on this here while keeping the attendance poll up for
the time being.
NOTE CONF
Right?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So for the content of this week, um, I've got
sort of two topics that are very closely interlinked, which
NOTE CONF
is really just one topic that I'll just need two
lectures to go over it.
NOTE CONF
So, um, today we're going to look at first of
all subspaces.
NOTE CONF
And then we're going to look at spanning and spanning
sets of a subspace or office space.
NOTE CONF
And then tomorrow we're going to go into talking about
linear independence and dimension.
NOTE CONF
And I think that's the title that Nicholson gives to
that topic.
NOTE CONF
The one the other important part of tomorrow is going
to be the concept of bases, what they are and
NOTE CONF
how they span subspaces.
So we're developing into that concept there.
NOTE CONF
Um, now before I go into that, probably I want
to start let me see, where do we go?
NOTE CONF
Um.
All right.
NOTE CONF
I did have something.
Oh, there we go.
NOTE CONF
There we go.
I had something to dim the lights a little bit,
NOTE CONF
but you can see it, right?
Okay, so I set, um, as the reading for this
NOTE CONF
week, chapter five.
And then just really just one page of chapter six,
NOTE CONF
which was this one here, which was sort of all
axioms for vector addition and vector and scalar multiplication and
NOTE CONF
so on.
You might thought you, you might think to yourself, what's
NOTE CONF
the point of this?
How should I really read this?
NOTE CONF
Because you can read this as just saying, well, these
are just obvious rules of how to work with vectors
NOTE CONF
that we had all the way back in week one.
There aren't all this stuff we've gone through that we
NOTE CONF
know how to work with vectors.
Is this just a reminder?
NOTE CONF
And no, you can read this the other way around,
because so far in everything on most things that we've
NOTE CONF
done, we've worked with vector spaces being r, n, b,
r 2 or 3, or maybe in RN, but it
NOTE CONF
was always um, like vectors built out of numbers in
the real in, in the real numbers.
NOTE CONF
But actually the concept goes much further.
We don't need to think about vector spaces, something in
NOTE CONF
R like RN or something like that.
We can try to apply the concept to something completely
NOTE CONF
abstract or something completely different.
And then the question becomes somehow, what?
NOTE CONF
What are the rules of the game?
Like, what do I need to have from some abstract
NOTE CONF
concept in order to call this a vector space?
And this is really what these are.
NOTE CONF
These are sort of rules of the game that I
can say, rather than saying, well, my vectors, um, have
NOTE CONF
these properties, I can go the other way round and
saying anything that has these properties I will call a
NOTE CONF
vector space.
And then once I've got that, I can say that
NOTE CONF
most of the things we've developed so far in, in
particular, this sort of more abstract stuff that is coming
NOTE CONF
this week and next week will apply to this object,
whatever it is.
NOTE CONF
As long as I know that I've got these properties
there now.
NOTE CONF
So I could term for example, I mean, I could
literally go and say, I want to calculate with apples
NOTE CONF
and bananas how I call these things like these fruit,
I call them vectors.
NOTE CONF
As long as you define to me what you mean
by taking u plus v, what you mean by apple
NOTE CONF
plus a banana, and what you mean by saying if.
What happens if I multiply my apple or banana by
NOTE CONF
a scalar?
And if as long as you can do the whole
NOTE CONF
thing consistent so that it satisfies all these properties, that
it's going to be a vector space, and I can
NOTE CONF
do all my stuff where there's an everything that I've
done so far carries over.
NOTE CONF
So this is again sort of an example of that.
I say we're going to go away from working with
NOTE CONF
concrete objects, real numbers, and going more and more into
working with their properties.
NOTE CONF
So a little bit more, more concrete.
What are other things that you are working with?
NOTE CONF
The obvious thing is that Nicholson says these are functional
spaces.
NOTE CONF
So these vectors u and v I could think about
as a function general function.
NOTE CONF
Or if you want to do a little bit more,
more, more concrete polynomials, for example, know these are obvious
NOTE CONF
things that I can write.
Think about this and they will satisfy all the properties
NOTE CONF
of a vector space.
And these are concepts that come quite often.
NOTE CONF
Other things will be matrices rather than vectors.
A little bit looking the same as vectors, or just
NOTE CONF
have larger larger area of numbers.
But again this is something where that would apply.
NOTE CONF
So that is just the background.
And apart from this I'm going to go right back
NOTE CONF
to our N and keep there for this week and
next.
NOTE CONF
But you will have these concepts coming up now.
So just remind just as a reminder that we've got
NOTE CONF
this as well.
Right okay.
NOTE CONF
So let's go straight into subsets and actually well not
quite into the first problem I do that in a
NOTE CONF
second.
So I've got a set like this here now.
NOTE CONF
And it's probably worthwhile at this point.
And I'm just going to say a few things about
NOTE CONF
the notation, because Nicholson introduces that and is quite often
used, and it's probably quite useful if we talk about
NOTE CONF
this, I'm going to get away from the, uh, from
that pole there and talk about notation.
NOTE CONF
So if I'm talking about sets, right, I'll do the
other way round actually.
NOTE CONF
Sorry, because I can't see what I'm writing otherwise.
Give me a second.
NOTE CONF
There we go and there we go.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
If I'm talking about sets, um, so I can write
NOTE CONF
down a set as having a set bracket and then
list all the elements that I have.
NOTE CONF
So for example, I can do something like two, four,
six.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And say this is the set of um, those numbers
NOTE CONF
in particular.
Uh, quite often I can't really list all the elements
NOTE CONF
in a set.
Um, so I can do something, um, which Nicholson calls
NOTE CONF
the set builder notation.
Um.
NOTE CONF
So, um, I can do something like that, that I
can say.
NOTE CONF
Right.
I want the set of all say n in n,
NOTE CONF
so all natural numbers.
Um, then I put a condition on it, um, so
NOTE CONF
that, for example, I can say n is divisible.
By two.
NOTE CONF
Um, end of the set.
Yep.
NOTE CONF
So in this case for this notation I've sort of
got a base set here.
NOTE CONF
Um, and also have a condition here.
Um, and in the middle I've got this, uh, vertical
NOTE CONF
line there, um, that is usually pronounced as such that.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So I can read this as this is the set
of all n in the natural numbers such that n
NOTE CONF
is divisible by two.
So set of all or even numbers.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Some people use a different notation.
NOTE CONF
For example, instead of a vertical line.
Here, some people just use a colon.
NOTE CONF
Uh, that's just perfect.
Personal preference means the same thing.
NOTE CONF
Pronounce the same thing.
Um, and I can have a slight variation on the
NOTE CONF
whole thing.
Uh, that, for example, I could say something like this
NOTE CONF
is the set of anything that I can write as
two n, uh, such that n is a natural number.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, of course, that would be the same set in
NOTE CONF
this case.
Um, and sometimes one or the other, um, is more
NOTE CONF
natural of trying to write the sets.
Um, so just as a reminder, what is meant if
NOTE CONF
I write something like this.
So in this case, I'm going to look at the
NOTE CONF
set here.
Um, of all vectors in r n um, I'm going
NOTE CONF
to call this set.
And this is not the natural number.
NOTE CONF
This is just a set called n.
So all vectors such that for a given matrix A
NOTE CONF
times x is equal to zero.
So the question is this set.
NOTE CONF
Such a set is that a subspace or is that
not a subspace.
NOTE CONF
And right now at this point I will need to
switch things over.
NOTE CONF
So um, I'm going to go and give you the
pole here.
NOTE CONF
And I'm going to go this here and bring up
a clip.
NOTE CONF
Um, right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Do you.
Know that I have a three choices here?
NOTE CONF
Um, I researched these, uh, It added, um, I am,
I know, multiple answers.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
This play now.
NOTE CONF
No.
Do you need a reminder?
NOTE CONF
You might need.
But how do I do that?
NOTE CONF
All right, there's my lecture polls.
Oh, and you don't see the other thing, right?
NOTE CONF
Right.
We've got that.
NOTE CONF
We've got this.
Um.
NOTE CONF
And, uh.
Probably.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
We are.
NOTE CONF
I've got 40.
But I'll show you the results.
NOTE CONF
Okay, okay.
Sorry for that.
NOTE CONF
Um.
And sorry for those who haven't been able to vote
NOTE CONF
is because they didn't have the poll.
Um, but I get I get to that in a
NOTE CONF
second.
I'll just play that in a second.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so most of you think this is always a
subspace.
NOTE CONF
Um, and indeed it is.
Um, I'll tell you a little bit more about it.
NOTE CONF
In fact, this is what is called the null space.
Um, and if you have anything like we've seen that,
NOTE CONF
um, a times x, a multiplying with a vector is
a linear transformation.
NOTE CONF
And indeed any linear transformation asking what elements are mapped
onto zero, that is going to be a subspace.
NOTE CONF
So what happens if I do this slightly different.
Um, if I say now consider the set of all
NOTE CONF
elements, all vectors which are mapped onto a vector b,
um, where b is not the zero vector.
NOTE CONF
So is this a subspace or is this not a
subspace?
NOTE CONF
And um, again I'm going to go back.
I'm going to reset this poll.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm going to start this.
And while you're doing that, I will try to display.
NOTE CONF
This here.
So that you can take part.
NOTE CONF
All right.
20s.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, end of the time, let's have a look
at the results.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So you're much less clear about this.
So just about most think that is never a subspace.
NOTE CONF
Something almost the same must always.
And something this depends on something.
NOTE CONF
So probably at this point it's worth looking at.
Actually, water subspace is like going back in and seeing
NOTE CONF
what we know about these things.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So uh, right, okay, let's just keep this up here
and let's have a look, um, at my subspaces.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So a subspace, um, I'm saying is a set of
vectors, which in principle could be any set of vectors,
NOTE CONF
um, is a subspace or if the following are satisfied.
So I've got a couple of axioms.
NOTE CONF
Um, one being zero should be in the subspace, one
being that if I've got x and y in the
NOTE CONF
space or in the set of vectors, then um, there
are some is also in the subspace, um, and the
NOTE CONF
other one, if I've got an x in the subspace
and a the scalar and scalar times.
NOTE CONF
Like this awesome subspace.
So in other words, we're saying that this space should
NOTE CONF
be closed with respect to vector addition and scalar multiplication.
Just adding to vectors or more deploying a vector by
NOTE CONF
a scalar.
It's not going to take me out of that subspace.
NOTE CONF
Now that should remind you of something that we have
done previously.
NOTE CONF
Um, if I just go back here, um, namely, um,
linear, the definition of linear transformations.
NOTE CONF
Um, so there's a certain certain, um, relation between the
asymmetry between that here as well.
NOTE CONF
We've looked at sort of where we're saying we've got
X and y elements of a subspace or element of
NOTE CONF
a vector space.
We're looking at what happens to x plus y, what
NOTE CONF
happens to axe.
Um, so there's a certain symmetry here with the axioms
NOTE CONF
two and three.
And indeed one way of doing this, of thinking about
NOTE CONF
subspace, is that this is anything that you can define
the concepts of linear transformations on.
NOTE CONF
You know, in order to be able to check this
here, if you've got X plus y, we need to
NOTE CONF
be able to at least say that x plus y,
we can do the transformation on it all.
NOTE CONF
So we're not not looking at actually what it does,
but just we need to be able to evaluate our
NOTE CONF
transformation x plus y.
And the same thing if we look at the second
NOTE CONF
one, if we multiplying it with a scalar, we need
to be able to evaluate that.
NOTE CONF
So to some extent these things that we've got there
are the conditions so that we can talk about linear
NOTE CONF
transformation on a subspace at all.
A subspace is something where we can sensibly talk about
NOTE CONF
whether something is a linear transformation or not.
So one possible application might be something if you're doing
NOTE CONF
computer graphics and you're not doing this stuff and the
whole run, but you now wanting to do, I don't
NOTE CONF
know, a rotation or something on a plane.
Um, in in MN.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
This is a subset of that.
NOTE CONF
And he wanted to think, are these things linear?
What are the relations?
NOTE CONF
How does it work?
There are in order for being able to do that,
NOTE CONF
the space you're working in must be a subspace.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Now, um, if I've got this sort of symmetry between
that, you notice that one thing isn't symmetric.
NOTE CONF
Namely here I've got this axiom one there that says
zero has to be in the subspace.
NOTE CONF
And here I'm not saying anything about zero.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
And indeed we've noticed when we've done that there that
we don't need to say anything about zero because that
NOTE CONF
just follows from those axioms.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
I can use for example, the second one then saying
let's like set a equal to zero.
NOTE CONF
And I know that helps me that t of zero
has to equal to zero.
NOTE CONF
So can we do something similar over there.
Can we just derive, um, that first thing there from
NOTE CONF
the others?
Um, what do you think?
NOTE CONF
Anybody thinks we can do that over here?
Is that.
NOTE CONF
Like, if you assume a certain minus x?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so if we had x in the set and
minus x in the set, we could do that.
NOTE CONF
Do we know that minus x is on the set.
Yeah a can be minus one indeed.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
No it does work doesn't it.
NOTE CONF
So we can do something like, uh.
What do I need to.
NOTE CONF
I probably don't want this here a laptop.
Go to the camera.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Just give me a second so I could do something
NOTE CONF
like saying, well, if I've got an X in my,
in my subset there or my space there.
NOTE CONF
Um, I know that, um, minus one times x, um,
must be in the space.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, minus one times x, obviously is minus x.
NOTE CONF
That must be in the space.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um, by the third axiom there.
And if I've got those two, then I've got that
NOTE CONF
x minus x.
Um, so that's just the sum of two elements on
NOTE CONF
the subspace.
Um, this is the zero vector that's also element on
NOTE CONF
the subspace.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So it does seem to work.
It looks like that the first one there, um, just
NOTE CONF
falls out or the other thing.
So does that make the first axiom here redundant?
NOTE CONF
Could I just do it without.
Could I just what I've done in the sorry I
NOTE CONF
haven't got it up there.
The linear transformation that I just have axioms two and
NOTE CONF
three.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Any anybody wants to say whether they think this is
redundant or not.
NOTE CONF
Or in other words, does one action, one that tells
us something that the other two don't tell us.
NOTE CONF
Up there.
As one.
NOTE CONF
Only to assume that an X actually exists.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Exactly.
That's the reason.
NOTE CONF
So you need to assume in order what I've done
here.
NOTE CONF
I need to assume that an X are actually half
an element in my set.
NOTE CONF
You know what it does include what it does exclude.
The whole thing is that I couldn't have the empty
NOTE CONF
set with all the other things.
If I just have two and three, then just having
NOTE CONF
the empty set would be a subset.
There's just simply no element.
NOTE CONF
So anything anything holds.
Um, but my first one there says I've got a
NOTE CONF
half an element.
And now, because I know that if ever I have
NOTE CONF
a subset, zero has got to be in the subset
by what I've just done here.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's natural to to say that I've got a
zero in the subset.
NOTE CONF
So an empty set is not a subset.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, now that we've done that, that we have
some idea now what subsets are um, it or subspaces
NOTE CONF
or sorry, I shouldn't call subspaces.
There are different subsets.
NOTE CONF
Um, that I talked about subspaces.
Um, I should probably go back now and can track
NOTE CONF
the conditions.
So, um, what does happen if I go back here
NOTE CONF
and, um, look at this set that I had at
the beginning.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay, I've got that there.
NOTE CONF
So can we now say something about that set?
Um.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So why is this?
NOTE CONF
Why is this a subspace?
Um, so we've got the set here, um, of all
NOTE CONF
vectors in RN, uh, such that a x equal to
zero.
NOTE CONF
Now everything works the same if I don't expect this
axis to be in RN, but sitting in any vector
NOTE CONF
space and more than eight times x, I'm looking at
any linear transformation.
NOTE CONF
That's sort of the the beauty of it.
I'm doing it concretely or relatively concrete, but you will
NOTE CONF
see that everything happens in the more everything works in
the more general setting.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look at my subspace axioms.
So what do I need to prove?
NOTE CONF
Uh, first of all.
So S1 does that.
NOTE CONF
How Howard.
As one says, it's zero in the subspace.
NOTE CONF
So I need to check what happens if I apply
A to zero.
NOTE CONF
So a times the zero vector is the zero vector.
So indeed that holds.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So zero is element of the subspace.
NOTE CONF
So I should write the zeroth element of n.
So next thing I want to show um s two
NOTE CONF
is if I've got two, um, if I've got uh
x and y in n, um, so if I've got
NOTE CONF
x and y in N, um, then I know that
because they're in the subspace, I know that axe equal
NOTE CONF
to zero.
And I know that a y equals to zero.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So now I want to take what happens to x
plus y.
NOTE CONF
So x plus y um in order to see whether
that's in the space, I need to multiply it with
NOTE CONF
a, um, and see what happens.
Um, now I can take this apart a x plus
NOTE CONF
a y.
I know this is zero.
NOTE CONF
So this is zero plus zero.
Um, and that's a zero.
NOTE CONF
So, um, x plus y.
So I have here that x plus y is also
NOTE CONF
in n.
Well so that worked.
NOTE CONF
Um, and then finally, um, I can have a look
at the third one.
NOTE CONF
So I've got X in my space or in my
subspace and a scalar.
NOTE CONF
Um, so that means um, as before.
Um, if x is in N, um, I know that
NOTE CONF
axe is equal to zero.
Um, and then I can have a look at what
NOTE CONF
happens to axe.
Um, again, I can multiply it with a to check
NOTE CONF
what the result is.
I know that I can take the A out here.
NOTE CONF
So this is a um, times a x.
Um, I know that a x is zero, so this
NOTE CONF
is a times zero.
Um, and that is zero.
NOTE CONF
Um, so again this is part of the subspace.
So okay.
NOTE CONF
So um, we've checked all the axioms.
Um, so we've proven that, um, this set that I've,
NOTE CONF
um, haven't got here anymore, that that is indeed always
a subspace just come straight out of the properties of
NOTE CONF
linear transformations.
Now, um.
NOTE CONF
Now that we know a little bit about subspaces, let
us look again at this one here.
NOTE CONF
Um, and um, first of all, before we weren't really
sure what's happening.
NOTE CONF
So are you clearer about that now.
So let's just go back, um, and do the same
NOTE CONF
poll again that we hard reset and display.
So if I have the right hand side equal to
NOTE CONF
zero, is this a subspace or is this not a
subspace?
NOTE CONF
Right?
10s.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so you're now much clearer about that.
This is never a subspace, which is indeed the right
NOTE CONF
answer.
Can anybody give me a quick reason why this cannot
NOTE CONF
be a subspace?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Zero zero would not be part of the set.
Indeed.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And that's a that's a quick, quick check for a
NOTE CONF
lot of things.
So again, just to um, just for completeness, um.
NOTE CONF
So um, if I've got this set here.
Um, my set B, which I've now defined as x,
NOTE CONF
all vectors in our n such that a x equals
to b.
NOTE CONF
And I want to check that.
Um, so my first property there that I had was
NOTE CONF
I need to check whether zero, um is sorry, whether
zero is part of the set, um, or it is
NOTE CONF
not.
But I just want to check that that is the
NOTE CONF
case.
Um, so I need to check what happens if I
NOTE CONF
apply a to that.
So if I say a times zero, um, that is
NOTE CONF
zero obviously.
Um, and zero is not equal to b.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we said b up to B, not um, not
part of the not not zero.
NOTE CONF
Um, so zero isn't in that set.
So this cannot be a subset.
NOTE CONF
Yep.
So that's a quick quick and easy check here.
NOTE CONF
Um, so let's go further trying to recognise subsets or
subspaces.
NOTE CONF
I keep saying that wrong subspaces.
Okay, so here are a few.
NOTE CONF
Subsets of R2 given geometrically.
And I'd like you to tell me which or any
NOTE CONF
if any of these are subspaces, not just for each
of them.
NOTE CONF
I just want to tell me the number.
How many of these do you think are subspaces?
NOTE CONF
I've got five choices.
And it's only one correct answer.
NOTE CONF
I give you.
I'll give you 1.5 minutes on this one.
NOTE CONF
That's.
The whole thing is.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Last 10s.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Good.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, 1 or 2 is what you think?
Uh, pretty much.
NOTE CONF
Even so, there's one set where people are unclear about,
and I suspect I know which one that is, but
NOTE CONF
let's let's go through them bit by bit.
Um, so, um.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look at this.
So first of all, the first set is just the
NOTE CONF
circle, right.
Subspace or not subspace anyone?
NOTE CONF
No.
Why not?
NOTE CONF
That doesn't have zero in it.
Yeah, we just set that zero.
NOTE CONF
That's a quick check.
Um, actually, I can also do another one.
NOTE CONF
I can also say, well, if I had a vector
here, this one here, if it was a subspace, um,
NOTE CONF
if I scale, that vector would still have to be
in the subspace.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So if I did something like this here, um, that
NOTE CONF
should be in the subspace.
Isn't.
NOTE CONF
So this isn't a subspace.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, second one.
NOTE CONF
What did I have?
Uh, this one here.
NOTE CONF
Line.
Just the line, not through the origin subspace are not
NOTE CONF
subspace.
No, you're not saying.
NOTE CONF
And indeed, I'm not asking.
Uh, same counterexample is previously.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, zero isn't in the subspace.
And indeed sort of drawing a vector here.
NOTE CONF
I can't scale the vector.
That doesn't work.
NOTE CONF
So not a subspace.
Um, I'm going to do this one first.
NOTE CONF
Just the origin.
Yeah, just the vector.
NOTE CONF
Zero, zero.
Nothing else.
NOTE CONF
Is that a subspace or is that not a subspace?
It is.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, so because a similar with zero, I can I'm
NOTE CONF
not going to I wasn't going to check the, um
the things.
NOTE CONF
No, I'll just keep it as that.
So this is, um, this is a subspace.
NOTE CONF
So I suspect the one that people found confusing was
this one here where I just have the x axis
NOTE CONF
and the y axis.
So, um, subspace or not subspace.
NOTE CONF
I think this is the one where we were half.
Half.
NOTE CONF
So you think not a subspace Y?
Not.
NOTE CONF
Second condition.
Second condition?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, if I've got two elements in a subspace, their
NOTE CONF
addition has also to be in the subspace.
And indeed, that doesn't hold you.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So you might think here, because zero's in the subspace.
NOTE CONF
And if I can scale any vector, I can.
That would still be in the subspace.
NOTE CONF
Um, but if I have something like this, here's my
vector x here.
NOTE CONF
And that one here is my vector y.
Um, then this here, that one there would be the
NOTE CONF
vector x plus y.
Um, and that is not in the subspace.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So if they're not in the subspace.
Now.
NOTE CONF
I could try to add things to the set to
make it into a subspace.
NOTE CONF
So I could add this vector x plus y into
the subspace.
NOTE CONF
And then probably all its multiples I need those as
well.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
To make some sort of star.
NOTE CONF
Is that a subspace?
No, no, I can still combine stuff.
NOTE CONF
How much would I have to add in order to
make this into a subspace?
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
All of our two.
NOTE CONF
Indeed.
I would need to add all of R2 now.
NOTE CONF
And that's a that's sort of what's guiding us for
the next for the rest of this of today is
NOTE CONF
what do I need to add onto some spaces in
order to make it into a subspace?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, and indeed.
NOTE CONF
Um, I can now go and say the following here.
Uh, right.
NOTE CONF
Okay, good.
Ignore what I have on the back there.
NOTE CONF
Um, now, I've got two elements here, x and Y
in my subspace.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um.
NOTE CONF
And I want to.
So what?
NOTE CONF
We have to include a path from x and Y
to make something into a subspace.
NOTE CONF
I know that at the very least, I need to
have t x and s y.
NOTE CONF
Um, must be also element of the subspace.
So I need to be able to scale them by
NOTE CONF
any, um, scalar.
And I need to be able to add things together.
NOTE CONF
So I need to be able to have t x
plus s y.
NOTE CONF
Um, need to also be in the subspace.
In other words, I need to have sort of all
NOTE CONF
linear.
If I've got two elements in my subspace, I need
NOTE CONF
to have all linear combinations of these elements both in
the subspace.
NOTE CONF
And indeed that sort of thing has a name.
I'm going to skip this pole.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
That is called the span.
And it's quite fitting that we do the whole thing
NOTE CONF
on Halloween.
I think um, like this back there that spans something
NOTE CONF
which is a thing.
So a span if given, given a set of vectors,
NOTE CONF
the span is just the set of all linear combinations
of these vectors.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, and um, right.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what do we know about the span then?
NOTE CONF
Um, well, the first thing is that given a vectors
and the span and I'm going to call this just
NOTE CONF
to take me, I'm going to call the span just
u.
NOTE CONF
We're saying the set U here as a subspace of
RN.
NOTE CONF
So it is a subspace.
The span is a subspace.
NOTE CONF
Um, and so probably shouldn't be all that surprised.
That's how we that's how we constructed it.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
In order to be for it to be a subspace.
NOTE CONF
But we can say more about it.
So there's this statement here.
NOTE CONF
Nicholson.
And again, I think this is one of the ones
NOTE CONF
that you sort of have to read a couple of
times to understand what this is saying.
NOTE CONF
So it says if I've got another subspace of RN
that contains these vector.
NOTE CONF
So I'm defining the span.
And then I'm taking just a random subspace that happens
NOTE CONF
to contain the vectors.
And I'm saying that the span actually has to be
NOTE CONF
part of the subspace.
So in other words what this means is that the
NOTE CONF
span U there is the smallest subspace that has all
these vectors in it.
NOTE CONF
So it's going to go back to what I said.
What I said earlier, um, with a with a cross
NOTE CONF
there.
What do I have to add in order to make
NOTE CONF
this into a subspace?
The span is exactly what I have to add.
NOTE CONF
Given some vectors.
The span, it's the smallest possible subspace that includes these
NOTE CONF
vectors.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And I think I'm going to play a little bit
with a span.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
So um, what is the span of those two vectors
over there.
NOTE CONF
Um, and just give you a little bit of a,
uh.
NOTE CONF
Just give you lots of options.
Give a little bit of sort of a geometric thing.
NOTE CONF
So we're talking about we're talking about this vector here.
That's one one and this vector here that is one
NOTE CONF
minus one.
Um, sorry, not quite 45 degree angle.
NOTE CONF
So are we.
If the span just the zero vector, the x axis
NOTE CONF
both acts that the triangle with a corner point.
So that would be the sort of triangle um, in
NOTE CONF
this here, um, the square with a corner point.
So that would be if I make this here into
NOTE CONF
a square, um, and take this one here.
Is that that one, um, is just the cross shape
NOTE CONF
union.
So that would be if I just make this sort
NOTE CONF
of into into something like that.
Uh, or is it actually the whole of RN and
NOTE CONF
that's got if I count correctly, you've got seven options
there.
NOTE CONF
So I'll give you a poll with seven different options
for that one there.
NOTE CONF
Seven choices.
Nope.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
That's the wrong one.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Seven choices.
NOTE CONF
Seven choices added.
Uh, not multiple answers.
NOTE CONF
Timer display.
Excellent.
NOTE CONF
Up to G.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So which is it?
Not showing you the pole is like another 10s.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So most people, at least two thirds, think gee is
NOTE CONF
the right answer, the whole offer, and indeed that is
the or the whole of R2, and indeed that is
NOTE CONF
the correct answer.
Um, now there's a few people here who thought F
NOTE CONF
or e or D, um, so f f can be
a subspace that is sort of the cross thing.
NOTE CONF
We've heard that before.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um, D and E, I understand where you're coming from.
And I think in this case, you might be confused
NOTE CONF
by my.
You might have been a little bit confused by my
NOTE CONF
bad picture there.
Um, that's sort of how does something like that that's
NOTE CONF
misleading actually.
So it's really it's not just anything.
NOTE CONF
So remember that if I've got something, if I've got
something in my subspace, then if I scale that, it's
NOTE CONF
also got to be in the subspace.
So it can't be anything that is sort of that,
NOTE CONF
that is sort of has a limit to that.
It has to go in all directions up to infinity.
NOTE CONF
And if you do that, you will get the whole
of R2.
NOTE CONF
Um, the thing that I had there, the other two
possibilities there, um, so particular number D that what is
NOTE CONF
called the convex hull of these vectors, let us also
consider that will in various causes is important.
NOTE CONF
Um, but we're not getting that through through the span.
So this is not the span indeed is going to
NOTE CONF
be the whole of are two.
How do I see that.
NOTE CONF
So can I just um I just want to quickly
show that here.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, um, the claim here that I have, um,
the claim is that, um.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Where do we go?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that the span, um, of one one and one
minus one here, um, is indeed the whole are two.
NOTE CONF
Um, so how do I show that?
Um, I show inclusions in both directions, so I hope
NOTE CONF
you believe me that if I say that the span
of these things here, there's got to be a subset
NOTE CONF
of R2.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Can't really go out of R2.
So I need to show I need to show that
NOTE CONF
R2 is a subset of the span.
Right.
NOTE CONF
How do I do that?
Um, I do that by taking any vector in R2
NOTE CONF
and show that that is also part of the span.
So I can show that by saying I can take
NOTE CONF
any vector x and y in R2, um, and show
that this is um, part of the span.
NOTE CONF
Um, so what does it mean that it's part of
the span?
NOTE CONF
Um, it needs a need to be able to write
x and Y as the linear combination of the vectors
NOTE CONF
in the span.
That was the definition.
NOTE CONF
So I need to be able to write this as
one one plus s one minus one.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Uh, now there's various ways around that and the sort
NOTE CONF
of sake of time, because I still need to cover
one thing.
NOTE CONF
I'm not going to do that.
But you could, for example, realise that what you've just
NOTE CONF
written down here is a linear system of equations with
s and t as my variables.
NOTE CONF
So I can now check whether I know whether this
is got a solution and it does have a solution.
NOTE CONF
Always think about that.
As I say, I'm not going to do that at
NOTE CONF
the moment in the interest of time.
Um, just one other thing.
NOTE CONF
So what happens if I had this here?
So not half 111 minus one, but I've got one,
NOTE CONF
two, one, three here as my elements there.
So there's no these look much closer together here.
NOTE CONF
Uh, 13123.
So this one here and that one there.
NOTE CONF
Something like that.
What is this?
NOTE CONF
What's the span here?
Anyone.
NOTE CONF
It's still the.
Hole.
NOTE CONF
It's still the hole of R2.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't really matter whether they're very close together.
So if they were parallel, it wouldn't work.
NOTE CONF
But as long as they've got enough information, it'll span
the whole of R2.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so, um, there's a little bit here of, um,
right.
NOTE CONF
Notate or um, language.
Um, so this banning it might be a bit confusing.
NOTE CONF
So we say that if you've got the set X
here that that spans the subspace, you uh, we say
NOTE CONF
also that X is a spanning set for you.
And you on the other hand the span of x.
NOTE CONF
Now a little bit sort of a not not really
exactly.
NOTE CONF
But you can think of X as a sort of
generating set for the span for the subspace.
NOTE CONF
And now it quite like to know a little bit.
We'd quite like to know a little bit about sort
NOTE CONF
of the relation between the sort of generating set, the
X and the set that it spans.
NOTE CONF
Um, and so I would like you to look at
the following.
NOTE CONF
The following example.
I'll give you a poll there in a second.
NOTE CONF
Assuming that we've got three vectors u, v and x
x, u and v are three vectors that are half
NOTE CONF
and are now going to look at the span of
two of them, x and u, and are also going
NOTE CONF
to have a look at the span of x and
u and v.
NOTE CONF
So nothing more said about these vectors, just that I've
got three vectors.
NOTE CONF
And I'm going to look at the span of two
of them, the span of three of them.
NOTE CONF
Now the question is what?
What do we know anything about that.
NOTE CONF
And in particular, I'd like to think and this is
the this is the poll that a half, I suppose.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we could have it in such a way that
actually the span of those is the same span of
NOTE CONF
X and years, the span of x, U and V,
so V doesn't add any more information.
NOTE CONF
So the question to you is a could that be
could that be the case.
NOTE CONF
So you might think that this is not possible.
So answer E the situation is not possible.
NOTE CONF
Or if it is possible what do I know about
u and v.
NOTE CONF
What must how it must it be that the new
vector v is actually one that I have there already,
NOTE CONF
or multiple, or just the linear combination or something completely
different?
NOTE CONF
Um.
So.
NOTE CONF
Five choices.
Okay, I've given you set this up to be in
NOTE CONF
a minute and a half.
Uh, we might just about half a minute and a
NOTE CONF
half.
All.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay, a.
NOTE CONF
Few more seconds.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So most of you say then it has to be
NOTE CONF
linear combination, not any of the others.
And indeed, that is the correct answer.
NOTE CONF
Um, and since it's relatively clear in the interest of
time, I'm not going to spend much more about it.
NOTE CONF
I'm just going to sort of summarise the situation.
Um, so we're wanting to know the, the sort of
NOTE CONF
the relation between a set of space and its like
and its generating set.
NOTE CONF
What, its span.
So the vectors that span it.
NOTE CONF
And we seen that we've seen already that a space
like can have different spanning sets.
NOTE CONF
I had two possible ones for two.
Um, we now see that it might be possible to
NOTE CONF
actually include a third element that we still have the
same spanning set, like the same set that is spanned.
NOTE CONF
So we don't even know, um, it doesn't even have
the same number of vectors.
NOTE CONF
So that situation is a little bit unsatisfactory.
You know, that we don't really we'd like to have
NOTE CONF
something a bit more that we say, this is if
this is a generating set, we'd like to be able
NOTE CONF
to say a little bit more about it.
Um, and indeed, um, that, that, that what we've just
NOTE CONF
had on the pole seems to suggest that some elements
of the spanning set can be superfluous, can be redundant.
NOTE CONF
Question is, can we identify them?
Yeah, and that's pretty much where we're going to start
NOTE CONF
off tomorrow and taking this further.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
That's it for today.
NOTE CONF
Um, talk to you tomorrow again.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF